Minor consistency edits (#30)
Nikoleta-v3/meta-analysis-of-prisoners-dilemma-tournaments: paper/main.tex

strategies in a small number of tournaments, casting doubt on the generalizability
of conclusions. We analyze a large collection of \numberofstrategies
strategies in \numberofalltournaments tournaments, present the top performing strategies across multiple
tournament types, and distill their salient features.
The results show that there is not yet a single
strategy that performs well in diverse Iterated Prisoner's Dilemma scenarios,
nevertheless there are several properties that heavily influence the best performing

> strategies. Refining the properties described by R. Axelrod in light of
> recent and more diverse opponent populations these are: be nice, be provocable and generous,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
strategies. This refines the properties described by R. Axelrod in light of
recent and more diverse opponent populations to be: be nice, be provocable and generous,
```

> recent and more diverse opponent populations to be: be nice, be provocable and generous,

Reviewer 2: to be: be ..., be -- factor out the "be" or eliminate the initial one

game in 1950~\cite{Flood1958}. Following the computer tournaments of R. Axelrod in the
1980's~\cite{Axelrod1980a, Axelrod1980b}, a strategy's performance in a round
robin computer tournament became a common evaluation technique for newly designed
strategies. Many tournaments have followed Axelrod's~\cite{Beaufils1997, Bendor1991,

> Harper2017, Kendall2007, Stephens2002, Stewart2012} and today hundreds of more strategies exist

Reviewer 2: more than ... Axelrod's initial set? Maybe leave out the more, or rephrase "and now the literature and various codebases contain hundreds of strategies"

Author: I like the rephrase. 

I wasn't sure if the original `more hundreds of strategies exist` was correct. It just read weird to be. I even try google translate to check 😆

    \item Do not be too clever by scheming to exploit the opponent
\end{itemize}

> Forgiveness in R. Axelrod's terms is a two round procedure. Though essentially

Reviewer 2: Maybe leave off R. Axelrod here unless you've verified that his works describe forgiveness as such.

Though ... --> Forgivess is a strategy's ...

it is the strategy's ability to go from a \(DC\) to \(C\) aiming to achieve
mutual cooperation again, the only way TFT would end up in \(DC\), in

> environments without noise, is if it had received a defection and it retaliated.

Reviewer 2: and then retaliated

> Following, an opponent's defection if the opponent were to ``apologise''

Reviewer 2: A bit awkward phrasing, I think you wanted something like: "Subsequently, TFT would forgive an opponent that apologises (in a D, C round) by returning to cooperation, since mutual cooperation ..."

\begin{itemize}
    \item \st{Do not be envious} Be a little bit envious
    \item Be ``nice'' in non-noisy environments or when game lengths are longer

>     \item Reciprocate both cooperation and defection correctly; Be provocable and generous

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can soften to something like "Reciprocate both cooperation and defection" appropriately: be provocable and generous but not extremely

    \item \st{Do not be too clever} It's ok to be clever
    \item Adapt to the environment; Adjust to the mean population cooperation
\end{itemize}

The different tournament types as well as the data collection, made
possible due to an open source library called Axelrod-Python (APL),

> are covered in Section~\ref{section:data_collection}. The raw as well as the processed

Reviewer 2: Maybe simply "the raw and processed datasets"

\begin{itemize}
    \item In standard tournaments the dominating strategies were
    strategies that had been trained using reinforcement learning techniques.

>     \item In noisy environments where a noise probability strictly less than

Reviewer 2: I think "the" was probably more correct

strategies exhibit some extortionate behaviour, but not constantly.
ZDs are a set of strategies that are often envious as they try to exploit their
opponents. The winners of the tournaments considered in this work are
envious, but not as much as many ZDs.
Though the exact interactions between the matches have not been recorded here,
the work of~\cite{Harper2017} which introduced the trained strategies that
appeared in the top ranked strategies of Section~\ref{section:top_performances}
did. In~\cite{Harper2017} it was shown that clever strategies managed to achieve
mutual cooperation with stronger strategies whilst exploiting the weaker

> strategies. This could potentially be what is happening with the clever winners

Reviewer 2: Maybe just "This could explain the clever winners..."

of our analysis, and would explain the SSE distributions. This could also
be the reason why ZDs fail to appear in the tops ranks -- they try to exploit
all opponents and cannot actively adapt back to mutual cooperation against

> stronger strategies, which requires more depth of memory. \footnote{Note that
> ZDs also tend to perform poorly in population games for a similar reason: they
> attempt to exploit other players using ZDs, failing to form a cooperative
> subpopulation. This makes them good invaders but poor resisters of invasion.}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
stronger strategies, which requires more depth of memory. Note that
ZDs also tend to perform poorly in population games for a similar reason: they
attempt to exploit other players using ZDs, failing to form a cooperative
subpopulation. This makes them good invaders but poor resisters of invasion.
```

@Nikoleta-v3 if you're keen on a footnote then just ignore this suggestion.

Author: I don't know how I feel about footnotes. My supervisor never used them 😆

Reviewer 2: Typically I use a footnote when I want to say something related but not go too far on a tangent. Some journals don't allow them though and I don't feel strongly about them in general. If adding a footnote back into the paragraph breaks the continuity then probably best to remove it.

Author: I don't mind it in the main body but just realised that this sentence needs a citation. Was there a particular paper you had in mind @marcharper?

Reviewer: You could use our Moran paper?

The distributions of the \(CD\) to \(C\) rate evaluate the behaviour of a
successful strategy after its opponent has defected against it. In standard
tournaments it was observed that a successful strategy reciprocates with a
probability of 0.5, and in a setting that the type
of the tournament can vary between all the examined types a winning strategy
would reciprocate on average with a probability of 0.58. In
tournaments with noise a strategy is less likely to cooperate following a
defection compared to standard tournaments, and in probabilistic ending
tournaments a strategy will reciprocate a defection.
This leads to revisiting the recommendation of being provocable to defections made

> by R. Axerlod. In fact only in tournaments with short matches should a strategy

Reviewer 2: Is that quite right? In short matches strategies should be less nice and highly provocable I think, i.e. simply more aggressive over all. Mutual cooperation is build by history and the expectation of future interactions. From a purely payoff point of view, if one knows that an interaction will end soon then defecting could result in a higher payoff over the last few interactions. It is uncertainly about when interactions will end and the desire to avoid (or impact of) prolonged mutual defection that encourages mutual cooperation.

Author: I agree with you Marc. I think that's what I am saying.

> In fact only in tournaments with short matches should a strategy
be provocable

and by provocable we mean deterministically just defect after receiving a defection.

Reviewer 2: I think I'm just struggling with "provocable" meaning "completely provocable" rather than "somewhat provocable" depending on the environmental conditions, such as noise, or expectation of a game ending soon.

You might enjoy [this article](https://grantland.com/features/diplomacy-the-board-game-of-the-alpha-nerds/) about the game diplomacy. Near the end there is a tale of a guy that spends years developing a reputation as a never-defecting alliance member, but when given a chance at a very rare total victory in a world championship, he betrays his compatriots at the last instant.

Author: I am definitely going to read that one!

Author: Do you think https://github.com/Nikoleta-v3/meta-analysis-of-prisoners-dilemma-tournaments/pull/30/commits/2d6e502c5de18bfd720ed69c09f4eb405bef1f06 makes our suggestion clearer?

Reviewer 2: It's closer, but sort of implicitly suggests now to not be provocable or generous in "standard" matches. I think it's more accurate to say be somewhat provocable and somewhat generous, how much so depends on average game length, noise, and the population of opponents. I'll see if I can find a way to say that succinctly.

Author: Okay.

 Would it be easier for you if I merge the current `PRs` in?

Reviewer: > You might enjoy [this article](https://grantland.com/features/diplomacy-the-board-game-of-the-alpha-nerds/) about the game diplomacy. Near the end there is a tale of a guy that spends years developing a reputation as a never-defecting alliance member, but when given a chance at a very rare total victory in a world championship, he betrays his compatriots at the last instant.

Brilliant!

Reviewer 2: Sure go ahead and merge

> This leads to revisit the recommendation of being provocable to defections made
> by R. Axerlod. In fact only in tournament that are not long a strategy should
> be too provocable, in the rest of the settings a strategy should be more
> generous.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This leads to revisiting the recommendation of being provocable to defections made
by R. Axerlod. In fact only in tournaments with short matches should a strategy
be provocable, in the rest of the settings a strategy should be more
generous.
```

Based on the results of~\cite{Harper2017} this could be because they are
selectively exploiting weaker opponents while mutually cooperating with stronger
opponents. Highly noisy or tournaments with short matches also favoured envious
strategies. These environments mitigated the value of being nice. Uncertainty
enables exploitation, reducing the ability of maintaining or enforcing mutual
cooperation, while triggering grudging strategies to switch from typically
cooperating to typically defecting.

The features analysis of the best performing strategies demonstrated that a
strategy should reciprocate, as suggested by R. Axelrod, but it should relax its
readiness to do so and be more \textbf{generous}. For noisy environments this is
inline with the results of~\cite{Bendor1991, Donninger1986, Molander1985,
Hammerstein1984}, however, we also showed that generosity pays off even in
standard settings, and that in fact the only setting a strategy would want to be
too provocable is when the matches are not long. Forgiveness as defined by R.
Axerlod was not explored here. This was mainly because the two round states were

> not recorded during the data collection. That is something we would aim to

Reviewer 2: Maybe simply "could be a topic of future work that examines the impact of considering more rounds of history"

incorporate in future work.
The features analysis also concluded that
there is a significant importance in \textbf{adapting to the environment}, and
more specifically, to the mean cooperator. 
In standard tournaments a strategy would aim to be the

> mean the cooperator while in noisy tournaments the best performing players

Reviewer 2: -the

\section{Discussion}\label{section:conclusion}

This manuscript explored the performance of \numberofstrategies strategies of
the IPD in \numberofalltournaments computer tournaments. The collection of

> computer tournaments presented here is the largest and more diverse collection in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
computer tournaments presented here is the largest and most diverse collection in the
```

> literature. The \numberofstrategies strategies are drawn from known named
> strategies in IPD literature and the computer tournaments include tournaments of
> four different settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
literature. The \numberofstrategies strategies are drawn from the APL and include
strategies from the IPD literature. The computer tournaments include tournaments of
four different types.
```

> So what is the best way of playing the IPD? And is
> there a single dominant strategy for the IPD? There was not a single strategy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So what is the best way of playing the IPD? And is
there a single dominant strategy for the IPD? 

There was not a single strategy
```

within the collection of the \numberofstrategies strategies that managed to
perform well in all the tournaments variations it competed in. Even if on
average a strategy ranked highly in a specific environment this did not
guarantee its success over the different tournament types. Nevertheless, in
Sections~\ref{section:top_performances}
and~\ref{section:evaluation_of_performance} we examined the best performing

> strategies across various tournament types and analysed their salient features,
> and demonstrated that there are properties associated with the success of
> strategies, contradicting the originally suggested properties of R.
> Axelrod~\cite{Axelrod1981}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
strategies across various tournament types and analysed their salient features.
this demonstrated that there are properties associated with the success of
strategies which in fact contradict the originally suggested properties of R.
Axelrod~\cite{Axelrod1981}.
```

We showed that complex or \textbf{clever} strategies can be effective, whether
trained against a corpus of possible opponents or purposely designed to mitigate

> the impact of noise such as in the strategy DBS. Moreover, we found some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the impact of noise such as the DBS strategy. Moreover, we found some
```

strategies designed or trained for noisy environments were also highly ranked in
noise-free tournaments which reinforces the idea that strategies'
complexity/cleverness is not necessarily a liability, rather it can confer
adaptability to a more diverse set of environments.
We also showed that while the type of exploitation attempted by ZDs is
not typically effective in standard tournaments, \textbf{envious} strategies
capable of both exploiting and not their opponents can be highly successful.
Based on the results of~\cite{Harper2017} this could be because they are
selectively exploiting weaker opponents while mutually cooperating with stronger

> opponents. Highly noisy or tournaments with short matches also favoured envious

Reviewer: I like this :+1:

Reviewer 2: I agree. At the risk of giving a terrible analogy, biological creatures have some very complicated subsystems (such as the immune system) that confer generalized environmental adaptability, which requires remembering and exploiting historical information.

strategies. These environments mitigated the value of being nice. Uncertainty
enables exploitation, reducing the ability of maintaining or enforcing mutual
cooperation, while triggering grudging strategies to switch from typically
cooperating to typically defecting.

The features analysis of the best performing strategies demonstrated that a
strategy should reciprocate, as suggested by R. Axelrod, but it should relax its
readiness to do so and be more \textbf{generous}. For noisy environments this is
inline with the results of~\cite{Bendor1991, Donninger1986, Molander1985,
Hammerstein1984}, however, we also showed that generosity pays off even in
standard settings, and that in fact the only setting a strategy would want to be
too provocable is when the matches are not long. Forgiveness as defined by R.
Axerlod was not explored here. This was mainly because the two round states were
not recorded during the data collection. That is something we would aim to
incorporate in future work.
The features analysis also concluded that
there is a significant importance in \textbf{adapting to the environment}, and

> more specifically, to the mean cooperator. Moreover, the manner in which a
> strategy achieves a given cooperation rate relative to the tournament population
> average is important. In standard tournaments a strategy would aim to be the
> mean the cooperator while in noisy tournaments the best performing players
> cooperate a lower rate than the tournament population on average.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
more specifically, to the mean cooperator. 
In standard tournaments a strategy would aim to be the
mean the cooperator while in noisy tournaments the best performing players
cooperate at a lower rate than the tournament population on average.
Moreover, the manner in which a
strategy achieves a given cooperation rate relative to the tournament population
average is important.
```

to the population average and the four memory-one probabilities of cooperating
conditional on the previous round of play, these features can be optimized by a
memory-one strategy such as TFT. Usage of more history becomes valuable when
there are exploitable opponent patterns. This is indicated by the importance of
SSE as a feature, showing that the first-approximation provided by a memory-one
strategy is no longer sufficient.

These results highlight a central idea in evolutionary game theory in this
context: the fitness landscape is a function of the population (where fitness in
this case is tournament performance). While that may seem obvious now, it shows
why historical tournament results on small or arbitrary populations of
strategies have so often failed to produce generalizable results.

Overall, the five properties successful strategies need to have in a IPD competition
based on the analysis that has been presented in this manuscript are:

\begin{itemize}
    \item Be ``nice'' in non-noisy environments or when game lengths are longer
    \item Be provocable but also generous when game lengths are longer
    \item Be a little bit envious

>     \item It's ok to be clever

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    \item Be clever
```

(This is to match the grammar of the preceding statement and the other bullet points.)
